I'll just call out some
of the nuances right now,
which is GitHub allows you
to store stuff in two ways.
We're gonna talk about both of them today.
One is caching and
the other one is artifacts.
Artifacts are things that you might
want after the build process.
Caching is more like, hey,
multiple things are gonna need this thing,
don't redo things.
Now, your first gut reaction would be,
we should cache node modules.
We should cache node modules.
Can someone read my own notes to
me about what npm ci does again?
It deletes node modules.
>> Deletes node modules on every run.
So we could cache node modules
to delete it on every run,
as some kind of we hate
ourselves kinda thing.
The other thing that we can do
is I'm using npm as somebody,
and this is useful for
anyone on the livestream.
Someone mentioned earlier that
there were some issues using pnpm.
There are alternatives to npm, pnpm I
don't even know what the p stands for,
which is what I use,
yarn, so on and so forth.
And for a while,
it's one of those cat and mouse games,
which is, yarn was better than
npm cuz it did a whole bunch
of these different things that
then npm just did, right?
And so pnpm, which I have never said out
loud until now and hate saying, yarn,
npm all have this idea of also
they have a cache, right?
And this is super useful, because let's
say you are the kinda person who before
they moved all the exercises into one
repo, maybe did the thing I do for
a lot of the other workshops,
which is make 1,000 repos and
make you clone and npm install.
Even that's wasteful on your own computer
versus if you've already downloaded for
one, if it's the same
version with the same hash,
then you should be able to
just use that same one.
So all of these have a cache file
stored on your machine where they
cache the dependencies you've downloaded,
right?
What we could do in our
build process is cache that,
which is we'll still do an npm ci,
we'll still set up node modules, but
instead of reaching out to the network,
we're just gonna run on a local cache.
Now, these are fresh machines every time,
so we need to do something.
But we have that great
segue that says that
there's an action for that, as they say.
So let's go take a look.
[SOUND] Caching,
that looks like a good file to open up.
Sweet, and so
that's the long sheet answer.
Let's look at the short version
with these little eyeballs,
which is we can add an additional step.
And the reason we're gonna do this the
long way and then I'll show you the short
way, is that there is a shorthand for
doing this that is way easier, but
it only works in the very specific
use case we're talking about.
This way will work for everything.
And so it is worth looking at both
the one that you could use for
other things that are not npm and
the one that you can use more generally.
So other things, if you just want
inspiration of where you can use this,
is npm comes free with node, so
set up node, it installs npm.
The act of installing pnpm,
if that's what you use,
is a thing you might wanna hold on to,
right?
And I don't do this because
there's nuances around it,
the open source project I work on,
we do have a CLI binary that
actually has a full version of
the server baked into it in beta.
I don't cache it because I'm too
lazy to figure out how to check
that I have the most recent version,
because it's tricky.
I could totally do it if I sat down one
afternoon to do it, I just haven't.
But I might wanna store that version of
the CLI because we don't change it that
often, we change it once a month or
something like that.
And so there's all sorts of things I
might want to cache between runs, and
so this action will do it.
All right, so let's talk about what it is.
So uses, which is just like, where is this
thing located, which is actions/ cache@v3.
Those are kinda like in your package.json
on, they're locked so that if somebody
like updates an action with malicious
code, you have to go and bump your version
to opt into that malicious code, or
breaking changes, or malicious code.
So actions/cache,
that's like the repo name, @v3.
An id, that's just some identifier.
And then this with,
which takes two things,
a path, like what are you trying to cache?
That .npm directory is where npm
puts its cache files, right?
So everything you downloaded,
you hold on to.
That's the path that we wanna cache and
save between runs.
And the last one is,
what is the key, right?
And so this is how to check if we
should read from the cache at all.
And you can be really nuanced with this.
You could have, for instance,
this repo, to my knowledge,
does not have any compiled assets, right?
I'm looking at you like Node SaaS, right?
Or if you build an electron app,
like something where they're compiled for
that operating system and architecture,
right, then you might wanna also toss in,
and this is obviously the markdown file,
you might toss in runner.os, right?
So now it'll be, okay,
we are storing npm caches for Windows.
And we'll talk about the last
part in a second, right?
Whatever unique identifiers that you need,
you might want it for given,
if you have a weird, why'd I say weird?
If you have any kind of branching
strategy to speak of whatsoever,
you might use that somehow
in here as well, I don't.
The more important part
is this piece right here.
So this is how you do
string interpolation.
This is a function just provided by
GitHub Actions for you, which is cool.
Go find the package-lock.json,
which we know can't change when
we're using npm ci, and
just create like a checksum hash, right?
If the package-lock has not changed,
use the cache.
If the package-lock has changed,
which means the dependency have changed,
don't use the cache, right?
But then that will be a new key and
we'll just get a new cache, right?
So basically, the first job that ever
comes across this will check to see,
hey, do we have a cache key with npm-,
whatever the unique identifier
of that exact package-lock.json?
If yes, cool, load up that cache,
we'll use that.
If no, then go ahead and do the thing and
automatically create it at the very end.
We'll look at the pre and
post to see this all happen.
But that's kind of
the kinda high-level piece.
So we cache it and there it is now.
Fun fact that if you edit your
YAML in a markdown file for
your notes, that does not
necessarily change your code.
I know this cuz I used to teach for
a living, and you knew it was time to stop
when you were editing the markdown file
with the code instead of the actual code,
and refreshing your browser, and
wondering why it didn't work.
>> What of the dashes?
Is that just a semicolon sorta thing?
>> These dashes?
>> Yeah.
>> These are like separating each.
Name and uses,
this is two properties on the same object.
>> Okay.
>> It's a syntax for YAML.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> That was also a question in the chat.
There's also the edit.
So I noticed name can
be the first property,
but-
>> Yeah.
>> Name is followed the run command,
and it's that same thing.
>> The properties can be in any order.
>> Yeah.
>> It's kinda like keys on an object
in JavaScript.
>> Sure, so a dash pretty much
is declaring a new object.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> It's like a comma.
It's basically, Sometimes I'm like,
should just be JSON.
[LAUGH] YAML seeks to be easier than JSON,
sometimes guilty of being
a little bit too clever by half.
But also I am from the era where
I had to write CoffeeScript for
a portion of my life and
I'm still hurt by that.
So, sweet, sweet, sweet, and
you can put this in any order,
if you wanna do uses and then name.
I can even do like,
if you wanna really hate myself.
And just so we can see it later.
What emojis do we like to use?
My new favorite is this one, so.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> The melting face, yeah.
And I'm mostly putting that so
we can see it, some way to be like,
cuz we checkout repository,
that could be anywhere.
Cool, and so we will also,
I talked a lot about caching,
I didn't put it in.
Cool, and we gotta get
the indentation is important in YAML,
so it's like Python too.
How many languages can I
smack talk at the same time?
Let's find out.
I am a recovering Ruby developer,
so I have no right to say anything.
And let's actually do this across the two.
So the first time,
they're both gonna make a run at it,
pun unintended that time, which is
because the cache will be empty for
both of them when they start in parallel,
right?
But then the next time, one of them
will fail writing to the cache, but
that's okay, because the reason it
will fail writing to the cache is
cuz the other one already did it, right?
Which is also,
if you mess this up and just do npm-,
you're gonna have to go in there and
manually fix it, and we'll talk about how.
So we'll add in those two caches, and
let's go ahead and we're gonna say,
add caching to workflow, and push it up.
And I will hit Cmd +Shift + G
again to open yet another tab,
even though I knew totally that I
could have just Cmd-tabbed over.
And let's take a look at what we got.
All right, starting the job,
setting up the job.
You can see, there's my happy,
Checkout repository right there
with my melty emoji face.
Thing that I might be doing
when I get back to work next
week is putting emojis in all of my steps,
cuz no better way to say I'm back
from PTO than causing chaos.
And also, it's nice because you can
then see where the post is as well.
I kinda like it, actually.
I put the emoji in there as a joke and
I think I'm into it,
cuz it makes it very clear where
the start and end of each one is.
So pro tip that is hot off the presses,
emojis work in your job names and
can be useful, cuz you'd see setup
node is kinda in the middle there,
they do the post in the opposite
order that they came in.
Cool, cool, cool, and
so also, if you look,
Set up job is like lowercase,
but then post,
I don't know how to handle consistent
capitalization in these things,
so do whatever you want,
there are no rules.
Cool, so we run npm ci,
we run npm test in this case.
We'll do post setup node.
Actually, we want to post cache.
Failed to save, It did fail to save.
Luckily the error message is pretty good
on this one, other than the giant hash.
Another job may be creating this cache,
which is true.
More details, cache already exists.
You can actually see that it was pull
request number 2, which is also this PR.
So the error message is
somewhat helpful in this case.
So if we go into build, which
finished first, we go into cache, and
you can see that instead of downloading
that 45 megabytes every time,
we now have it in place.
And so I'm somewhat curious,
which is the npm ci,
which is still relatively small for
this repo, was 16 seconds.
It does mean you can either rerun all
jobs, or we could just push a command.
Let's do the polite thing.
And while that reruns,
I'm gonna go back to run unit test.
You'll see that we now have caches here,
which is,
there's our cache,
last used, one minute ago.
And this is useful if you forgot to hash,
or you messed something up,
and now you have a cache
that will never be busted.
You can manually bust it yourself
by hitting this little trash
can right here and delete it.
Now, I would love to tell you despite how
many times I both read and took notes on
the rules around caching, that I remember
them while I am live talking to you all.
I think it is like, you have a max limit
of 10 gigs and anything not accessed
in the last 7 days, after 10 gigs,
it's gonna start purging stuff.
And I think if you haven't touched a cache
in the last seven days, it also purges.
Important note about these caches is, and
even just the little hand wavy
version of these rules is good enough,
which is that cache is also uniquely
scoped to the target branch and
PRs of that target branch and
those branches themselves.
That sounds like words, right?
Let me explain.
When main runs its push, it will also
set up a cache with this key, right?
And that means main will always
have access to this cache.
Rerunning this workflow, which is what
I'm literally demoing as we let it run,
will also use this cache, right?
However, a different PR with
a different branch does not have
access to that cache unless main has it,
right?
So if main has it, all PRs against main
can also access that cache, right?
Reruns and children of those
can also access that cache, but
siblings can't, right?
You can only either it's your cache or
the target branch's cache,
you cannot go across, right?
And with a unique cache name like that,
and
there are tricks that you can do,
but let's assume that this is true.
So yeah, it'll save reruns, but
that save's pushing multiple commits and
whatever if you haven't
changed it since main.
You're getting 80% of the benefit for
almost no work, and
it'll be even less work in a second.
Sweet, so we've got that, and
this should have run at this point.
Cool, cool, cool,
one thing that I notice is,
it doesn't seem to be really any faster,
but let's see.
In my previous testing, it cut down
by like 33% or something like that.
So, all right, yeah, so before it was
16 seconds and now it's 7 seconds.
Now, you can be like, I don't care.
One, this is a small app.
Two, something something play right
downloading browsers hypothetically,
a lot bigger than your npm modules.
Three, if you have a lot of throughput,
it's not just gonna run
every workflow all the time.
You will run one and you'll queue up
the next run for that one to finish.
So let's say hypothetically,
you are more than one person
who's talking in between pushes.
You're a team, right, and
they take longer, right?
It does mean that you will get in
line behind your coworkers, right?
And so every little speed up then
multiplies over the number of runs.
And also, like I said,
some little node modules for,
I don't even know what
the dependencies are in here,
like three testing frameworks, both Svelte
and React, some stuff, 45 megabytes but
not a ton, versus much bigger caches,
obviously, it pays off a lot more.
Luckily, there's no difference
between caching big things and
caching small things, so
we got that going for us.
So yeah, you can see at this point,
and if we even go in here,
you can see it retrieved the cache,
and have it all there as well,
cache restored successfully from this key.
Great, so we can kinda get some
introspection into that process.
Like I said before, actually,
you can go into the caches,
you can delete any cache you want.
If you want as an exercise to yourself,
to make yourself happy,
npm install literally anything, see if
left pad is back or something like that.
And go ahead and push it up and
watch it bust that cache.
You'll still have the old one there,
but new caches will get that as well.